1. Write and run a Java program that does the following:
a) Declare a String object s containing the String “java is fun”.
b) Print the string s.
c) Use the length() method to print the length of the string.
d) Use the charAt() method to print the first character in the string
e) Use the charAt() and the length() methods to print the last character
in the string
f) Use the charAt() and the length() methods to print the middle
character in the string. If the string is odd print the middle character, if even
print two middle chars
g) Use the indexOf() and the substring() methods to print the first word
in the string.
h) Use the indexOf() and the substring() methods to print the second
word in the string.
i) Display the string in upper and lower case
j) Replace the letter ‘a’ in the string with ‘@’

2. Write a program which will ask the user to enter two strings. The program will then
display the longest string on screen. Sample output:
Please enter the first String: Donegal
Please enter the second String: Dublin
Donegal is the longest String.

3. Assuming that the password to login is “Open Sesame”, write a program that will ask
the user to enter a password to login. If the password is correct display an
appropriate message, if not, display an appropriate message and allow the user to
re-enter the password.
Adapt this program so that the user is only allowed three attempts at entering the
correct password.

4. Write a program that will ask the user to enter two strings. The program will then
tell the user whether the first string contains the second String
Please enter the first String: I love java!
Please enter the second String: java
“I love java!” contains the text “java”
Modify this program so that it will display an appropriate message if the first String
either starts with, or ends with the second String.
Please enter the first String: Hello World
Please enter the second String: World
Hello World contains the text World
Hello World ends with the text World

5. Examine the compareTo() method of the String class. Describe in your own words
what the method does and show returntype and parameters if any.
Write a program that accepts two string values from the user and will display them
in dictionary order. It should display a message like the following
“Apple” comes before “ball” in the dictionary
OR
The strings entered are identical

6. For each of the following, write a Java method that accepts a string argument and
returns:
a) A string with all characters in the string separated by ‘_’
b) A string with all vowels replaced with ‘*’
c) A string with the first letter of each word capitalised. (title case)
d) A reverse copy of the original string